
Cadence Hardware and Toolchain
------------------------------

Information on Tensilica configurable DSPs and controllers can be found on
the Cadence Silicon Solutions website:

https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/tools/ip.html

Information on the xt-clang compiler and instructions for setting up the 
Xtensa Toolchain can be found in the following documents, which are provided
under an Xtensa license and available for download via the Xtensa Processor
Generator (XPG) tab of the Xtensa Xplorer IDE:

	Xtensa Development Tools Installation Guide
	Xtensa Software Development Toolkit User's Guide
	Xtensa XT-CLANG Compiler User's Guide
	Xtensa Linker Support Packages (LSPs) Reference Manual
	GNU Assembler User's Guide
	GNU Binary Utilities User's Guide
	GNU Linker User's Guide


How to Build and Run the Tests
------------------------------

To build the tests, run "make all" in this directory. This will build
the following files under the build/ subdirectory -

NOTE: For MPU builds, execute "make all MPU=1". This passed define
-DportUSING_MPU_WRAPPERS to the port, which is needed to produce the MPU build.

    example.exe     -- Simple Xtensa demo program
    
    perf_test.exe   -- Performance benchmarking

    xt_coproc.exe   -- Xtensa coprocessor exerciser demo
    
    xt_alloca.exe   -- Xtensa alloca exception demo
    
    xt_clib.exe     -- Xtensa C lib demo (Newlib)

    xt_intr.exe     -- Xtensa interrupt test

    mpu_basic.exe   -- MPU/User tasks (RING1) test
    NOTE: Only in MPU build - see Notes for Version 1.8

To build the overlay test, run "make overlay". This will build the
following test in build/ -

    overlay_test.exe -- Code overlay manager integration

NOTE: The overlay test requires the FreeRTOS library to be built with
XT_USE_OVLY = 1. The makefile takes care of this by building FreeRTOS
with "make OVERLAY=1 overlay", but you should do a "make clean" first.
Similarly, run "make clean" before running "make all".
FreeRTOS overlay support is built without optimization to improve debug
visibility; see the System Software Reference Manual, "Overlay" chapter,
"Debugging Support" section for more details.  Overlay support works 
only with the windowed ABI option.

To build a minimal-size test, run "make small". This will build the
following test in build/ -

    small_test.exe  -- Small size test

This test modifies the configuration to minimize the code and data
size. See the FreeRTOSConfig.h file for the changes from the default
config. The changes are all ifdefed with SMALL_TEST.

NOTE: The small test requires the FreeRTOS library to be built with
the modified config. So you should do a "make clean" before running
"make small" to make sure you get the smaller version. Similarly,
run "make clean" before running "make all".

To build a larger stress test, run "make stress".  This will build the 
following test in build/stress/ -

    stress.exe -- Continuous stress test

This test runs until manually terminated by the user and displays 
minimal output at occasional intervals.  Note that this test may run
slowly in simulation and may not display output for several minutes.


How to Build and Run SMP Tests
------------------------------

To build tests for an SMP FreeRTOS configuration, run "make all SMP=1".
This will build the following SMP-specific tests, as well as all basic
tests, linking them with the "sim" LSP:

    xt_smp.exe -- Multitasking and migrating semaphore test

    xt_mc_demo.exe -- Multicore matrix multiplication performance test

The FreeRTOS SMP configuration option is not compatible with the
MPU and Overlay options that are described above.

These SMP tests will build by default to be run on the Xtensa SystemC
simulator (xtsc-run). A reference XTSC model for coherent multicore clusters
can be generated by running "make SMP=1 all check".  For more information,
please refer to the examples provided with the Xtensa toolchain installation,
such as xtensa-elf/src/xtos/examples/mc_coherent/.

When building for Palladium emulation using VDebug + OCD, or for Protium
or board targets that connect over OCD with a debug probe, the default
FreeRTOS SMP build requires the user to connect N xt-gdb sessions for an
N-core system (either via multiple command-line sessions or via Xplorer).
This is required in part because the default SMP build uses libgdio to
redirect console output to OCD.

SMP-specific FreeRTOS config options can be found under "SMP_TEST" in:
common/config_files/FreeRTOSConfig.h


Notes for version 3.11
----------------------

- Xtensa FreeRTOS SMP port only calls main() on core 0.  Non-zero cores
  enter the scheduler direclty.  Example tests modified accordingly.
- Xtensa FreeRTOS SMP port now supports configurations without DRAM.
- Xtensa FreeRTOS SMP port no longer requires non-zero cores to be
  held in RunStall upon startup.


Notes for version 3.10
----------------------

- Xtensa FreeRTOS port now supports SMP on LX coherent multicore clusters.
  See Xtensa port README for port/implementation details and limitations.
- SMP-specific tests added; existing tests updated to run on SMP configs.
- Build instructions added for SMP tests.
- One change is required for the above XTSC model to function correctly
  with SMP FreeRTOS v3.10: all non-zero cores must be held in RunStall
  until core 0 begins running and vTaskStartScheduler() releases them
  after initializing shared data structures.  A manual change to subsys.yml
  is required, which is detailed in the README.TXT located in that directory.


Notes for version 3.0
---------------------

- The directory structure and makefiles have been reorganized to conform
  to the structure of FreeRTOS version 11.0.0


Notes for version 1.8
---------------------

- This version implements support for Xtensa Memory Protection Unit.
  Namely, user threads will start at RING=1, and will have applicable memory
  access and type rights. Then, support for restricted threads is added;
  these are threads that can only access the memory assigned to them.

- MPU build is separated from the regular build. Need to build with
  'make MPU=1' to produce the MPU build. Currently, only examples
  'mpu_basic' and 'perf_test' are capable of running in MPU build.

- MPU port requires LSP to include sections 'privileged_functions' and
  'privileged_data'. They also need to be aligned and padded to the
  MPU align requirements. 

  NOTE: Xtensa toolchain RJ-2024.3 or later is recommended for ensuring
  this alignment/padding. This version of xt-genldscripts supports the 
  "ALIGN SECTIONS" directive within memmap.xmm files. Earlier tools may
  require manual alignment in the LSP.

- The port doesn't include any protection against user code calling
  xPortRaisePrivilege directly. This is expected to come in future
  FreeRTOS versions.

The tests will build by default to be run on the Xtensa simulator
(xt-run). The available options are

    make TARGET=sim     -- build to run on simulator (default)

    make TARGET=ml605   -- build to run on the ML605 FPGA board

    make TARGET=kc705   -- build to run on the KC705 FPGA board

Remember to do a "make clean" when switching targets.

To build the tests for your own hardware, you must provide the correct
linker script (LSP) and your own board support package. See the makefile
and refer to Xtensa tools documentation for more details.

If you build from Xplorer, remember to enable -mlongcalls in the Assembler
options for certain targets (e.g. when you get the linker warning: dangerous
relocation).

-End-

